---title:Any Yarn Scarf
---
"I always find myself buying beautiful yarn and absolutely nothing to knit with it. It is especially difficult for me to find a pattern for yarn that is extremely variegated or bright. I set out on a mission to design something simple to work, but not mind numbingly dull, with accents that would suit almost any yarn you choose.\n\nTrue to its name, the Any Yarn Scarf works with any yarn weight and color.\n\nAny Yarn Scarf works one increase every 4 rows for half of the scarf, and one decrease every 4 rows for the other half of the scarf. This creates a gentle slope and maximizes your yardage. It’s easy to create different shapes or to lengthen your scarf by adding straight sections in the middle of the scarf.\n\n**Changing the Size (Or Shape)**\n\nYou can adjust the scarf to be any width you prefer, provided you have enough yarn. The pattern is written in a manner that divides half of your yarn for the increases and the remaining half for the decreases. If you wish, you can work the scarf Saroyan-style and work a set number of increases repeats, followed by straight repeats, and a set number of decrease repeats. A small scale will help you determine your yarn usage and make it significantly easier to adjust the shape of the pattern.\n\n**Changing Yarn Weight & Needle Size**\n\nYou can use any yarn weight for this pattern. Using a scale makes it easy if you have one ball of yarn to work with. If you’re working with two balls, it’s even easier! Use one for your increases and the other for your decreases. I would recommend using a needle several sizes larger than called for to obtain a soft drape for the yarn.\n\n**Note**\n\nPDF version 2 does not have charts. PDF v1b has charts. Both are available for download.\n\n* * *\n\n**Errata**\n\nError in PDF version 1:\n\n- After the set-up rows, you should have 30 stitches, not 29.\n- The edge section for Row 1 should be: k2tog, k1, yo, ssk, yo, slm.\n\nBoth errors have been corrected in PDF version 2.\n\n"