---title:Goneril & Regan
---
"I am a mass consumer when it comes to popular culture. I love taking it in, critiquing it, and, well, mocking it endlessly. Rock of Love Bus, anyone?\n\nBut more to the point: I get inspired by the characters I read about, or watch on film and television, and I decided to knit things that I think would suit them.\n\nMost recently, I read a “revision” of _King Lear_ and portrayed his already wicked daughters, Goneril and Reagan, in an even more amusing and delightfully dastardly light. In honor of these two wicked women, I present to you sister socks. Somewhat similar but not identical, these socks are like any set of sisters: built from the same cloth, but different and unique in their own way.\n\nBoth socks come in three sizes, with each sock having its own charts and set of instructions. This stitch pattern is very stretchy, and I have provided photos of the socks on both blockers and feet so you may better select a size.\n\nYou can purchase the set of sister socks together on Ravelry for $6 – that’s right, _two patterns with three sizes each for $6_.\n\n#### About the Sisters\n\n**Goneril**\n\nGoneril is the eldest daughter of King Lear and the Duchess of Albany. While many of you probably know her from your encounters with William Shakepeare’s play _King Lear_, this pattern is not inspired by that Goneril. No, in fact, this pattern was inspired by a different Goneril: the Goneril in Christopher Moore’s _Fool_. She’s a little bit naughty, and quite a bit greedy. If Goneril could knit, she’s the kind of woman who’d definitely keep these socks for herself.\n\n**Regan**\n\nRegan is the second daughter of the same King Lear, and is Duchess of Cornwall. This Regan is also not the one you are familiar with from Shakespeare’s grand production. The Regan from Christopher Moore’s _Fool_ is a cruel, sadistic, and selfish woman. If Regan could knit… well, let’s be honest, Regan would never knit. But she wouldn’t be shy about using knitting needles to stab her enemies or in some other illicit manner.\n\n"