---title:Ivory Tower Cowl
---
"I adore this pattern. It makes me so happy. It takes a super complex cable motif and makes it the center of attention on a very simply constructed cowl.\n\nPrecious princesses locked in the highest tower have very little to do all day except wait to be rescued, read “What to Expect When You’re Expecting to be Rescued” and grow out their hair in hopes of using it as an escape mechanism. Ivory towers are seldom ivory, and the perfect gray used in this cowl with its wandering cable motif mimics the ivy and stone- work that helps keep these ladies locked away until they’re ready to be wed. Keep the castle draft out with this cozy cowl, and keep princesses stylish while they wait for their own personal fairy tale to get started.\n\nPrecious princesses locked in the highest tower have very little to do all day except wait to be rescued, read “What to Expect When You’re Expecting to Be Rescued” and grow out their hair in hopes of using it as an escape mechanism. Ivory towers are seldom ivory, and the perfect gray used in this cowl with its wandering cable motif mimics the ivy and stonework that helps keep these ladies locked away until they’re ready to be wed. Keep the castle draft out with this cozy cowl, and keep princesses stylish while they wait for their own personal fairy tale to get started.\n\n* * *\n\n**About Fairy Tales Saga**\n\nFairy Tales Saga is a collection of four patterns inspired by fairy tale stories of heroines and damsels. Every one of the four patterns in this collection speaks to the classic fairy tales of Grimm, Andersen, and (somewhat shamefully) Disney fame. Each pattern is unique–the cardigan, cowl, hat, and shawl are all special, just like the stories they were inspired by.\n\nFairy Tales Saga includes Ivory Tower Cowl, Lost Woods Cap, Ode to the Bay, and Snow White’s Lace.\n\n"