---title:Lost Woods Cap
---
"I’ve never been big on hats – but I think I finally found something that works for me. The baggy stop of the hat makes it easy for me to tuck my large amounts of curly hair underneath it without too much squishing. It also makes it a bit more stylish, in addition to being a warm and cozy transitional cap.\n\nI always wondered why girls in fairy tales got lost in the woods–it almost always seems to be their own fault, too. Little Red strayed from the path, Alice followed a silly rabbit, and Snow White fled to the woods to escape her evil stepmother. Somehow these ladies are incapable of not getting lost. This cap possesses no magical powers that would help these ladies stay find their way, but at least they’d be lost in style.\n\nThis cap is a rare instance where knitting actually looks good unblocked. The mesh lace pattern provides the cap with a textured slouch and gives it a perky air. The comfortable ribbing makes it easy to pull on and off without destroying your perfectly coiffed hair, and the openwork pattern makes it ideal for indecisive weather. Don’t block it–trust me, you’ll love it.\n\n* * *\n\n**About Fairy Tales Saga**\n\nFairy Tales Saga is a collection of four patterns inspired by fairy tale stories of heroines and damsels. Every one of the four patterns in this collection speaks to the classic fairy tales of Grimm, Andersen, and (somewhat shamefully) Disney fame. Each pattern is unique–the cardigan, cowl, hat, and shawl are all special, just like the stories they were inspired by.\n\nFairy Tales Saga includes Ivory Tower Cowl, Lost Woods Cap, Ode to the Bay, and Snow White’s Lace.\n\n"