---title:Luna's Shawl
---
"Sometimes I’m not really sure how pattern ideas find their way into my head. They just kind of show up there with no explanation for their presence. This happened with Traveling Woman and Saroyan, and it has happened once again. I am pleased to present Luna’s Shawl.\n\nLuna’s Shawl is knit with one full skein of sport weight yarn (335 yards, with inches to spare) and is comprised of cables and simple eyelet lace. It’s a bit of a quirky shape: rounded, not triangular, with a smaller wingspan and an emphasis on the shawl’s depth. It wears well with a shawl pin held off to the side.\n\nNamed after one of my favorite characters from _Harry Potter_, Luna’s Shawl is something I could see the ever perky Luna Lovegood wearing with her adorably mismatched outfits.\n\nLuna is plucky, eccentric, adorable, and completely hilarious. The unique size and shape of the shawl remind me of something that Luna would wear, and the color (aptly named Luna Granite) is perfect for her unconventional wardrobe, but still pairs wear with a t-shirt and jeans.\n\nThe pattern includes row-by-row stitch counts for all rows of the shawl (increases, cable/stockinette, and cable/lace), charted cables and charted lace, with written instructions for both, and instructions for fingering and sport weight.\n\nLuna’s Shawl is a quick and easy knit, with a moderate level of difficulty. The cable and lace charts are easily memorized 8 row repeats with very few special stitches worked on the wrong side rows.\n\n* * *\n\n### Size, Gauge, and Yarn information\n\n#### Fingering\n\n**Gauge** : 20 sts and 28 rows per 4”/10cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 6 (4.0mm)   \n**Finished size** : 16”/40.5cm deep, 45”/114cm wingspan   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 425 yards fingering weight.   \n**Yarn shown** : Little Red Bicycle Hipster Sock (100% superwash merino, approximately 430 yards per 115 grams).\n\n#### Sport\n\n**Gauge:** 18 sts and 28 rows per 4”/10cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 6 (4.0mm)   \n**Finished size** : 15.5”/39cm deep, 38”/96.5cm wingspan   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 335 yards sport weight.   \n**Yarn shown** : Miss Babs Yummy Sport (100% superwash merino, 335 yards per 150grams).\n\n* * *\n\n**Errata**\n\nVersion 3: There is a series of typos in the second table, it shows even numbers starting at 50 when it should be showing odd numbers starting at 49. This error has been corrected in version 4.\n\n"