---title:misdirected cowl
---
"A warm, oversized, easy-to-knit lace cowl that’s great for color scraps!\n\nThis pattern is knit flat and sewn together when you’re finished. The pattern doesn’t call for a provisional cast on, but if you prefer to use seam together live edges, you could use a provisional cast on without impacting the overall appearance of the cowl.\n\n* * *\n\n## Modifications\n\n**HEIGHT**\n\nThe finished cowl is really tall (this is awesome). But! If this isn’t your cup of tea, adjust the number of stitches CO to any multiple of 8 and you’ll be on your merry way. You could also make it larger if you want.\n\n**CIRCUMFERENCE**\n\nThis is a standard, single-wrap cowl. To make a cowl that wraps twice (or even three times!), grab a ton of yarn and just keep knitting until you’ve reached the desired size. Alternate the colors and patterns whenever you feel motivated.\n\n**YARN WEIGHT**\n\nBecause this is so simple, it can be knit in any yarn weight you like. Just remember to adjust the CO multiple by 8 and have plenty of yarn handy.\n\n* * *\n\nFound an error? Leave a comment! I try to respond as quickly as possible.\n\n_Pssst_ eagle-eyed knitters who spot errors will be rewarded with a free pattern or ebook of their choice ;)\n\n* * *\n\n_A PDF version of this pattern is available for download on the pattern website._\n\n* * *\n\n**yarn**\n\nMC: Approximately 220 yards / 201 meters dk weight yarn.\n\nCC: Approximately 170 yards / 155 meters dk weight yarn.\n\n**yarn shown**\n\nMC: Wooly Wonka Freya DK (100% BFL, 300 yards/274 meters per 100 grams) in Pewter (gray)\n\nMC: Wooly Wonka Freya DK (100% BFL, 300 yards/274 meters per 100 grams) in Winterfell (green)\n\n**needles**\n\nUS 7 (4.5 mm)\n\n**gauge**\n\n24 sts per 4 inch/10 cm, 28 rows per 4 inch/10 cm, stockinette.\n\n**notions**\n\ndarning needle\n\n**finished sizes**\n\nOne: 21 in / 53.3 cm tall; 34 in / 86.4 cm circumference\n\n"