---title:Ode to the Bay
---
"Ariel was always one of my favorite Disney characters–she was a ginger, after all. This shawl is inspired by another mermaid, though. The mermaid from the original Hans Christian Andersen tale was more like your typical fairy tale damsel than Ariel ever was and I found her adventure for love to be more sincere than Ariel’s. She slept on a pillow outside of the prince’s door to prove her devotion! There’s quite possibly nothing less demeaning than that.\n\nThis shawl is an ode to the waves that the little mermaid forsakes for a man who made her sleep on a pillow outside of his door. Although beautiful, love proved to be more alluring than the sea. This yarn is the perfect choice for the shawl: a gorgeous yarn inspired and dyed by nature, that so perfectly resembles the sea.\n\n**A note about the yarn used**\n\nA Verb For Keeping Warm Metamorphosis is classified as a sport weight yarn. However, most knitters will be able to obtain a similar gauge with a heavy fingering weight yarn.\n\n* * *\n\n**About Fairy Tales Saga**\n\nFairy Tales Saga is a collection of four patterns inspired by fairy tale stories of heroines and damsels. Every one of the four patterns in this collection speaks to the classic fairy tales of Grimm, Andersen, and (somewhat shamefully) Disney fame. Each pattern is unique–the cardigan, cowl, hat, and shawl are all special, just like the stories they were inspired by.\n\nFairy Tales Saga includes Ivory Tower Cowl, Lost Woods Cap, Ode to the Bay, and Snow White’s Lace.\n\n* * *\n\n**Clarification**\n\nIt is recommended that you bind off on a RS row. After the last edge row (7), this means that you will knit one more WS row, then bind off on the following row.\n\n"