---title:Traveling Scarf
---
"The Traveling Scarf is my favorite of the Traveling Woman Collection. It includes instructions for a scarf in fingering weight and a stole in worsted weight. Don’t be afraid to branch out, though. I’ve included tables for additional yarn weights and sizes.\n\nThe pattern uses two different methods of construction: (1) requires a scale and one provisional cast on; (2) requires two provisional cast ons and grafting, but does not need a scale. Both methods work for any yarn weight and FO size and are designed to maximize your yardage.\n\nThe pattern includes both written instructions and charted instructions. Instructions are given to use every single last yard of your yarn. You have two options for knitting the pattern, one of which requires grafting (the other doesn’t).\n\nOptions for customization include:\n\n- Custom sizing formula\n- Working the entire body in lace (two lace options)\n- Preventing edge flaring\n- Preventing curling in narrower scarves\n\nSpecial skill requirements include: provisional cast on, grafting (optional), and lace knitting.\n\n* * *\n\n### Size, Gauge, and Yarn information\n\n#### Fingering\n\n**Gauge** : 25 sts and 21 rows per 4”/10cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 6 (4.0mm)\n\n**Size** : Scarf, 7”/18cm wide, 79”/201cm long   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 450 yards fingering weight.   \n**Yarn shown** : Little Red Bicycle Hipster Sock (80% super- wash merino, 20% nylon), shown in Leonidas.\n\n#### Worsted\n\n**Gauge** : 16 sts and 20 rows per 4”/10cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 9 (5.5 mm)\n\n**Size** : Stole, 11”/28cm wide, 84”/213cm long   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 600 yards worsted weight.   \n**Yarn shown** : madelinetosh tosh vintage (100% super- wash merino), shown in Kale.\n\n#### Bonus sizes\n\nAdditional instructions (but not yardage/gauge requirements) are provided for the following:\n\n**Scarf**\n\n- Lace, sport, DK, worsted, aran, bulky\n\n**Stole**\n\n- Lace, fingering, sport, DK, aran, bulky\n\n* * *\n\n**About the Traveling Woman Collection**\n\nTraveling Scarf is a part of the Traveling Woman Collection, which contains 4 patterns and one chapter on general customizations.\n\nThe four patterns include: Traveling Woman, Traveling Scarf, Traveling Socks, and Traveling Cowl.\n\nEach pattern is available for $6 individually if you do not wish to purchase the collection. Discounts or credits cannot be given towards the eBook purchase price after purchasing individual patterns. Individual patterns do not include the chapter on general customizations.\n\n* * *\n\n**Errata**\n\nError in: version 3   \nCorrected in: n/a\n\nWorsted weight only:   \nRow 12 of the main chart written instructions should read “R12: k1 p13, k1\n\n"