---title:Traveling Cowl
---
"I have a secret love for cowls: they combine knitting the round, miles of stockinette, and warm, cozy comfort into one fantastically quick project.\n\nOf all of the projects in the Traveling Woman Collection, Traveling Cowl is the quickest and easiest to customize. The pattern includes instructions for fingering and worsted weight yarns, both of which have a large and small size. If stockinette stitch is not your thing, I provide instructions for knitting the cowl all in lace without the stockinette stitch. The pattern is written in the round with additional instructions included for working the cowl flat with buttonholes.\n\nKnit in the round or knit flat, your choice. Options to work the cowl entirely in lace or to add some emphasis to the lace pattern. Includes both charted and written lace instructions. The cowl comes in four different options depending on your yarn and cowl preference. If you prefer loose cowls, both large sizes are knit at a looser gauge, allowing the cowl to gently fall down your neck. The small/snug cowls are knit at a tighter gauge to allow for more sturdy construction. The larger cowls emphasize the lace, while the smaller cowls are built for warmth. Your choice of fingering weight or worsted weight, with a bonus bulky verion.\n\nThe lace motif is charted and written.\n\nCustomizations include instructions for additional yarn weights and an all-lace cowl. You should be familiar with knitting in the round or attaching buttons.\n\n### Size, Gauge, and Yarn information\n\n#### Bulky\n\n**Size** : medium (20”/51 cm worked flat only)   \n**Gauge** : 10 sts and 14 rows per 4”/10 cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 11 (8.0mm) needle   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 92 yards bulky weight.   \n**Yarn shown** : Schulana Capo Nord (100% wool), shown in #56, 1 skein.\n\n#### Worsted\n\n**Size** : large (21”/53 cm round or 22.5”/57 cm flat)   \n**Gauge** : 16 sts and 20 rows per 4”/10 cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 9 (5.5mm) needle   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 120 yards worsted weight yarn.   \n**Yarn shown** : Fiberphile Super Squish Worsted (100% superwash merino), shown in Mossy Bank.\n\n**Size** : small (17”/43 cm round or 16”/41 cm flat)   \n**Gauge** : 20 sts and 24 rows per 4”/10 cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 7 (4.5mm) needle   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 100 yards worsted weight yarn.\n\n#### Fingering\n\n**Size** : large (22”/56 cm round or 24”/61 cm flat)   \n**Gauge** : 20 sts and 28 rows per 4”/10 cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 6 (4.0mm) needle   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 300 yards fingering weight yarn.\n\n**Size** : small (18”/46 cm round or 19”/48 cm flat)   \n**Gauge** : 22 sts and 32 rows per 4”/10 cm, stockinette stitch   \n**Needle** : US 5 (3.75mm) needle   \n**Yarn** : Approximately 270 yards fingering weight yarn.\n\n* * *\n\n**About the Traveling Woman Collection**\n\nTraveling Cowl is a part of the Traveling Woman Collection, which contains 4 patterns and one chapter on general customizations.\n\nThe four patterns include: Traveling Woman, Traveling Scarf, Traveling Socks, and Traveling Cowl.\n\nEach pattern is available for $6 individually if you do not wish to purchase the collection. Discounts or credits cannot be given towards the eBook purchase price after purchasing individual patterns. Individual patterns do not include the chapter on general customizations.\n\n"